Spring JDBC is a framework for working with the
standard JDBC API that Java provides.
JDBC by itself is very error prone and not really user friendly.
Spring JDBC is also pattern‑based,
relying heavily on the template method pattern where you just need to focus on
the portions of the code that deal with the business logic.
Spring JDBC also builds on top of Spring and its dependency
injection libraries. Templates that we create can be injected
into other classes very easily.
It's also an ORM, much like Hibernate and JPA.
Using Spring JDBC still encourages the use of an object.
I would argue that one of the best reasons,
though,
for using it is that it works very well with existing database structures
where many of the other ORM tools struggle in this regard. Let's look at some of the particular problems that Spring JDBC solves.